hello stoic traders welcome back to another case study of the stoic edge system simple stoic setups based on a higher time frame trader psychology and you know everybody tells you that the problem is discipline you are not disciplined enough and i used to believe that too i thought i was the problem but think about it if your system requires 14 decisions before you can press the button it's not a discipline problem it's a design problem the system has too many life decisions your brain can't handle that under pressure nobody's brain can handle that and of course you could try harder, more screen time, more backtesting, more, more, more. But you've done that and you know how it ends. If you're doing the same thing and expecting different results, that's the definition of insanity. The traders who figured this out reduced the decisions and the discipline showed up on its own. That's what being a stoic trader actually means. it's not about having more willpower it's about having fewer decisions and this is why i keep saying less is more so yet again we are only focusing on the highest close of the month and the lowest close of the month because if we can do that we will be able to avoid garbage setups and it's all about avoiding garbage setups if you caught this move and you held it for three days let's say and you in heavy profit you took the profit beautiful trade and then you start trading when the price is not at the level and what happens you give away all of the profits to mediocre garbage setups and that's the whole point of stoic trading our goal is to be selective and only focus on the best of the best setups so while everybody is crying right now on the twitter about how difficult this price action has been let me just show you what happens if you only wait for the monthly extremes, for the monthly levels. So we're going to start with beginning of the February here. And this was the very first setup right after the first day of the month. And the first day of the month was over here. It was Monday. And you can see that the Nasdaq has been coming down. We have a first red day. we have an inside day, and then we have this over here, which is, if you look at the templates, this is the consolidation into the expansion setup. And these two candles are consolidation candles. So the inside day is a consolidation, and then you have this one that kind of takes out, but all it does is enticing longs. So everybody thinks this is a bounce, but this is the highest close of the month. And on the very first day, we established the highest close of the February. So you have the sweep, the swing failure pattern, and trade lower. So this in itself was a beautiful setup. as you can see consolidation you got an sbs also if you measure this pullback this is your 618 pullback and the easiest way to understand these setups is just watching 20 and 200 simple moving average and only execute when the price drops below the 20 and 200 simple moving average as you can see over here this was a setup during london session beautiful sbs little consolidation and price starts dropping you have drop into the 9 30 little pullback and price continues but the price is below the 20 and 200 sma price above 20 and 200 sma and over here price broke the 20 in 200 sma the moving averages has been flipped and you have consolidation leading to expansion also you got the beautiful targets from the fib geometry measuring the very first pullback see this was a beautiful target had a beautiful setup 9 30 had a brief retracement and continuation lower and if you're entering in 9 30 you probably want to have stop loss at least about the moving averages and you hold into the close or you hold until the 20 sma has been violated moving on to the next day as you can see over here this was the first red day so this is yet again another setup and yet again another consolidation as you can see the price is already below 20 and 200 sma we get back above it over here looks like maybe it's going to bounce but this was just an sbs previous daily close and you have moving area just flipped yet again below the previous daily close 9 30 open beautiful setup over here this is also was an sbs in there there is a small sbs and there is even a bigger over here beautiful retracement 9 30 everybody's buying everybody looks at this and they think that is going to be going. But if you just pay attention to the higher time frame levels, this thing only can go one way because we have first red day. First red day doesn't say it's going to go up. First red day says continuation. That's the setup. So when the price sweeping over here in London and it starts to make a bullish price action flip and there is a bullish price action coming up and everybody who's buying is simply trading against the higher timeframe buyers. And this is how you pick the best setups. You don't buy when you have a first red day because that's not a setup. You're going against your rules. If you have the first red day, there is only shorts set up over here and yet again 423 beautiful target you can exit over here or if you're trying to hold for more of course you are because you are holding in too close just make sure that when the price breaks back about 20 sma this is a very good place to get out because then it kind of retrace higher so when you have the move this is the move and this is where you want to get out beautiful maybe six are here depends how if you just sell stop this whole structure this was a beautiful six our trade and moving on to the next setup we have big drop we have three lower closes the price is very extended right we have the lowest close for the february and this was a third day reversal template for this setup and yet again we only trading from the extremes because the extremes will provide the best of the best setups swing failure pattern SFP price dips below the lowest close of the month and recovers this was Asia session during London session this was the setup you have the small consolidation and break upwards you can buy stuff this and try to catch that like that not a bad we have another consolidation leading into the new year beautiful SBS manipulation in New York right at 9 30 and you have an extension higher yet again measuring the very first pullback there is also an SBS in here so you gotta measure the first pullback and then beautiful targets 423 absolutely beautiful yet again we have the moving averages flip this is the best indicator that you can have on your chart and i know i keep dunking on indicators but if you're going to have one indicator on your chart just have 20 and 200 sma because that's all you need on a five minute chart just wait for the price about moving averages because the bias is set after the flip of the February lowest close of the month the price is bullish. We have third day reversal. So we are expecting a short squeeze. We are expecting for the price to trade higher. And that's why we do not short below the 200 SMA. we wait for the and as you can see over here this is where it started to flip so you can buy stop this whole structure or wait for the scandal closure buy stop it set stop below and you hold it into the New York you can hold it past New York if you got in this would be not an easy way to get in if you bought this breakout this was decent trade but not a lot of rr mainly this was a setup during london session moving on to another trade and this was a trade from the weekly level now the weekly level is not as good as the monthly level but still when something like this sets up you can take it you don't have to take it of course if you are being more selective it's even better still this is a nice setup you have the previous weekly highest close right you have the weekly high so this zone is the short zone and this was a third day reversal we have second day second day drives into the highs but the price struggling to break and retest and go higher so on the range breakout we're looking for the break and retest or swing failure pattern there are only two break and retest swing failure pattern and as you can see over here this was also thursday price opens up creates this sbs consolidation manipulation takes down in london now you wait until the price gets back below the 20 and 200 sma and this was also a setup break and retest during the 9 30 and this was an opportunity to get in and ride this not a bad setup as far as the fib geometry you can measure this whole thing and it didn't quite go to the 2618 it went to it next day but still gain 930 beautiful setup because it can only go one way. This is a third day reversal. Moving on to another setup from the highest close of the month. And this is now we are going into the March. And I wanted to show you this one because not every day is going to... Just because we know these setups and we're only trading from the monthly levels, it doesn't mean that every time it's going to be an easy trade and this is the example of the first red day and sometimes when we have especially a tight range just like this is where you can expect sharpiness this is where you can expect the first red day not to be as clean because the best setups coming from monthly extremes and if i go back and look at this chart on enqueue this is the first red day that i'm highlighting and as you can see the price is in a tight range and the setups before this i showed you from here and here as you can see this is monthly extremes And that's why it's so good. This one, when we drop so hard, you have multiple lower closes down. And eventually, this is the setup, the swing failure pattern. But let's get back to this one over here. As you can see, this was ugly. You have 330 over here. The price got back about the 20. Closing above HCOM. sells off 930 opens up and if you shorted this because the price closed back below the 20 and 200 sma if you shorted this and your stop loss was over here this is still a good trade but if you shorted let's say 930 you got excited and you shorted and this is it don't try to trade it again maybe if you tried it again here and you got stopped out on these wicks just walk away two losses is the maximum losses for the day do not tilt because i keep showing you the best setups and this one was off of the highest close of the month but you see that not every day is going to be the perfect day we do not have control of this market and it's very important to keep this in mind because it's so easy to get into this price action and if you are not trading or after you're done trading close your laptop close the charts and walk away do not look at the charts and i'm going to repeat after you're done trading do not look at the charts because the chart is always advertising you're always going to see the setup you missed oh why did i stop trading when perfect setup you stop trading because you're following your rules you stop trading because you're protecting your capital. You stop trading because you know that if you keep trading, most likely or not, you're going to tilt and blow up. One and done. Walk away. Moving on to another setup, which is the next day. After the first red day, this is the setup. on Friday. Trading above 20 and 200 SMA. 345 London setup. You have the first pullback. You have the second pullback. You have SBS over here. But you don't trade this because the price is still staying above 200 SMA and above the previous daily close here. maybe you can start your position here but do not go full all in on the setup until it's breaking below the 20 sma so after here you can start shorting stop loss goes above here and it drops into the 930 and you can get out after the price closing above 20 sma and you can see this was setup i think there was some kind of news at 8 30 there is an sbs in here one two three four five most likely there was some kind of news you could have entered on sbs and write this down 423 beautiful exit it's the same setup over and over again and that's the whole point next day now we are reacting from the support yet again the same thing we have february lowest close of the month this is the third day reversal we have the one two and on the third day and you had set up in london and new york so price opens up gets back i measured the first pullback as you can see 686 final target absolutely beautiful price trading about 20 sma this is could be a london setup this is where you can start your position but we only trading one way you starting your position with anticipation that the price will get back about 200 sma so riskier setup during london but this is no question we have beautiful consolidation we have 930 manipulation price gets below one more sweep into the 618 so if you measure this uh move from this low to the high to the sbs you'll get the 618 retracement beautiful retracement you can just gets back about 20 sma yeah this could be your entry this could be a risk and you take profits at 686 beautiful notice breakout about pdc pdl retest continuation higher the same thing over and over again on to another setup so we have this big bounce and then price can't get back about highest close of the month we have inside day which was just consolidation and this was the setup on thursday yet again after the inside day double the hcom so we know what's going on we are rejecting from the highest close of the month this is your setup what happened on thursday we have big sbs here one two three four five this was a big sbs we are below the previous daily close we have a break and retest of the previous daily low setup in here consolidation during london session new york opens up beautiful setup at 9 30 after the sbs below the 20 and 200 sma and you have 2618 beautiful exit towards the end of the day while everybody's complaining about such a bad price action i'm showing you the same thing over and over again this over and over again the stoic edge system works but only if you focus on high time frame setups because like i said you can trade all kinds of moves you can try to trade sbs in here one two three four five and then trade it towards the end of the day you can try to trade every single the chart but ask yourself is it worth it is it worth your time is it worth your emotion, stress, constantly staring at the screen. That's not trading. That's gambling. And they all running like headless chicken in this market. Oh my God, how bad this price action is. Bring back. Oh, it's Trump's fault. That's victim mentality. This market has been doing the same thing for hundreds of years and i'm going to show you that and i will continue to show you that the same thing has been happening over and over and over again the only problem is that you've been looking at the wrong place moving up now coming back from the support after the three lower closes you have the third day reversal beautiful setup yet again this was set up beautiful consolidation price is staying about 20 and 200 sma 9 30 new york session wasn't that great but still we went up previous daily high and then after the we break above reaching the 423 target and i measured this pullback over here this first pullback i have a couple more this is another setup the next day we have the first green day and the next day is the gap and run this is foolish setup so what happens we have the gap up over here price trades back fill some of the gap and then during the london session starts reversing we have higher highs higher lows right i actually measured this one as the first pullback you have 423 beautiful price action beautiful london setup all you do is flip the moving averages and you start buying you start loading in another consolidation by 9 30 is a bit too late if you bought it you probably need to exit over here after the price breaking 20 sma but still yet again traders get paid here's the next day yet again third day reversal two days of pump into the highest close of the month and the third day reversal swing failure pattern and here this was on wednesday you can see the market goes grinds higher consolidation starts breaking down there is an sbs in there also six one based on this one over here and if you measure we achieved this 686 and this one over here on the smaller measurement but it actually went even lower so as you can see sometimes it's worth holding into the close but if you caught this in london you probably want to get out here after the 20 sma gets violated and maybe try to short again during the new york session when we get back below 20 sma so you realize this is a fake out stop loss goes about here and you just hold it into the close but yet again down below the 20 200 sma this is where you can short stop loss gets about the moving averages about the structure this is your risk and you're capturing some very decent profits. And this was trade from the highest close of the month. And I just showed you the trade one, the trade two, and the trade three. And each day had defined bias. We were bullish here because we are trading back about the February lowest close of the month. We had the swing failure pattern. We were bullish here because this is the first green day. And we were bearish here. This is the rejection from the highest close of the month. Yet again, swing. So I'm not going to talk about this over here because this one tried to bounce. Didn't do anything here. This was consolidation. And this was a follow through after that consolidation and the price closed below. the February lowest close of the month. So now we have range breaking down. So this was not signal day. We didn't bounce for February. And the next day we tried to do that, but closed below the February outcome. Maybe there was some kind of trades here, swing failure pattern. But the important thing is that, As you can see, now we had two inside days. So here's the setup. You have the bounce. A lot of traders got in. You got the buyers getting in. But the problem is that we are below the February lowest close of the month. so you can see how the price staying and closing below right below that february close of the month do you think these levels are random these are factual price levels everybody has these levels on their chart they just don't mark it out because they don't think about them like i do The close of the day is the most important thing because that's where the committed traders held. So that's why you see these price levels being so sensitive. And this is how we can form our bias on the higher time frame chart. And that's all we need in order to trade. We need a bias where the price goes and then we apply the price action, whatever models, kung fu kicks, tricks, tips, whatever you want. And that's why we have the SBS. That's why we have 20 and 200 SMA, 618 retracements after the higher timeframe bias. so yet again while everybody is trying to buy this up all i see is rejection after rejection from the february lowest close of the month so this is the inside day this is another inside day and today was the flash we had buyers trying to hold and hope oh look at this this is now a reversal the mark back to the moon but the market needs to close back about the levels monthly extremes and this wasn't an easy trade but the bias was correct sbs during the asia session the London session breaks down and this is not an easy one to trade because we have this big retracement yet again we are rejecting a 10 o'clock rotation below the 200 SMA lowest close of the month this is the rejection with the SBS 20 SMA you can short this this is your risk and you hold it into close for three four hour if you're catching this but yet again this is not an easy trade to trade because where we are and we are still fighting that bigger range and we are still fighting and trying to decide is this going to break down or is this going to be a double bottom and continuation higher? We don't know. And frankly speaking, we don't care. We don't care if it's going to go to all-time high or we're going into the bare model. That doesn't matter. All we care about is the setups, higher time frame levels, the five templates, and the execution model. That's it. And with that being said, This is going to be it for this case study, and I will talk to you in the next one. Take care.
