hello stoic traders welcome back to another case study today i want to talk about the nasdaq and dow jones futures and what happened on friday usually nasdaq and dow jones move in tandem there is a correlation to them they move together sometimes that correlation breaks and that's what we had on friday this is going to be a great example of how to pick the best instrument to trade and how to stay out of the trades that are not there so as you can see here on the screen i have chart of ym and here chart of nq nq had a bullish day somewhat bullish day i would call it choppy i would call it consolidation hell noise something that is not worth touching and ym actually had a decent setup and this is the instrument i picked to trade on friday and the main reason is that we have been extending for past two weeks on dow jones and on nasdaq this was a third day reversal after multiple higher closes we have one two three higher closes so we know that the daily chart is extended and anybody who's trying to buy this are buying at the worst time right now the long traders are going to be trapped from these levels and right now we are at the highest close of the month so this is why i shorted based on the third day reversal this is based on the stoic edge system high time frame protocol first we need to identify the signal and the signal comes from the previous day close which happened to be the highest close of the month once we had that in place we opened the five minute chart the next day and the number one thing before you do anything you need to identify your timing window what session are you trading are you trading asia london or new york if you are trading london session you want to take trades after 3 a.m if you are trading new york session you want to take trades after 9 30 a.m and preferably wait for the 10 a.m rotation those are the key timings before you do anything else the moves happen either starting in asia and it's already too late and maybe you can trade continuation in london sometimes the main move will happen during london session and new york has a continuation of that move and sometimes new york session will be the move after asia london consolidates into the new york open and this is was consolidation throughout asia and london we had manipulation at the cpi 830 this was a cpi news release and you can see it spiked into the unmitigated move origin this is from the market structure teachings this is the unmitigated move origin with the sbs right and see how they left this number two untouched on this pullback and they come back at the cpi high and this is your manipulation into the umo with the sbs sweep beautiful but the main point is that we do not trade this because this is the cpi so if you are waiting for the cpi news which you should because if we have news on a day you want to trade after those news and when you have news during new york session but you are trading london session well maybe don't trade that session when you have new york news and trading is all about restricting yourself with the hard unambiguous rules the rule is to wait for the key timing after the news so on friday i was following my rules and i was looking at the instrument and which one is setting up i looked at the dow jones and it looked great we have this amazing consolidation and then after 8 30 we had the spike and i was waiting for the 9 30 and i wanted to see if we drop below the 20 and 200 sma can i take the trade and that's what i did i just waited for this candle to close five minute candle it closed over here and i entered the trade my stop loss was about here after the price retraced i entered again on the sweep of the number two because i realized it was an sbs but the price staying below 20 and 200 sma that's another rule that i have i only short below 20 and 200 sma so that's why i am not shorting here at the top i'm not trying to anticipate that this is going to be a rejection i am simply responding to the price that already happened and i'm looking to see is this price following my plan from the warm-up and i posted the same warm-up plan for both and q and ym for both instruments i was looking for a third day reversal so when i saw price action on ym and i looked at nq it looked different we don't have an obvious consolidation we have some kind of consolidation over here this is a big range you know you got this breakout over here and then there is the cpi news and the price is staying about 20 and 200 sma price is staying about highest close of the month price is staying about previous daily high and in the warm-up i say when you have the third day reversal i give a plan i say if the price staying about hcom if the price staying about previous daily close which is in this case previous daily close is the same as hcom and if price staying about 20 and 200 sma there is no trade because this trade does not line up with our plan this trade does not line up with warm up and if there is no plan there is no trade and this is how you could have stayed out of this garbage price action on NQ, I mean, you can see CPI 830, 930 spike, 1030 spike, and the price is still holding about 20 and 200 SMA. So when I open the five-minute chart, I am not trying to identify is this is an SBS over here. During the London session, maybe, yeah, you could have traded this, then you need to ask yourself, what are your rules? Are you a scalper and you allowing yourself to scalp this movement? Or are you more of a one and done trader? Like a more of a swing trader. And I recommend to everybody to move on from the scalping into more higher time frame trading. Because it will be more peaceful. and i know some people still going to scalp some people need to find out the hard way and i also did find out the hard way myself that the scalping wasn't really for me but it is totally doable to scalp but when i come to the charts and i'm trying to identify what is that one and done trade for me today first of all i need to have a signal and the signal comes from the previous day so if the signal is the third day reversal i'm only looking for shorts and if the price is above hcom about pdh about pvc about 20 200 sma this means that there is no trade on this instrument the instrument price action does not agree with my plan so therefore there is no trade we are not trying to be right or wrong i'm not looking at this as a winning or losing signal i'm treating this as a plan i'm not trying to understand is this sbs model 2 in here that the one that taps into the move origin right you have the one two and then you sweep four five i am not trying to understand if this sbs is going to work out this is what you do when you sculpt patterns and again you can totally do it it's just not for everybody it's very stressful and it's easy to go on tilt if you want to do it just follow a simple strategy where you're following 20 and 200 SMA and you're scalping SBS either it's SBS model 2 or SBS model 1 there is an SBS model 1 on top of here right you got the sweep and this is your target you can scalp the SBS you can scalp this SBS also this is a SBS model 2 but understand that there is no concrete 100% rule to tell if this SBS is going to work out. It could have easily failed. And it doesn't mean that you now need to find a reason why this SBS failed and it didn't go up. There are trades that are going to work. There are trades that are going to fail. There are trades that look good and then they fail. There are trades that look terrible. there is no way it could go up and then it suddenly goes up just like it did here right it was down trending and then it spiked so the more time you give it for the pattern to play out the more confirmation and clues you're going to collect that it might work so let's say you just want to scalp this over here. So you just want to risk such a little amount and you're buying this five-minute candle because this was a SBS sweep and you think it is going to play out. That's all you can do. You can place a bet and then if you get stopped out, don't try to explain why you got stopped out your idea failed that's it just failed there is no explanation to it and the more you're trying to explain the more you're going to fall into that rabbit hole of price action trading and chasing patterns on the one minute chart on a 15 second chart i'm not saying it doesn't work I'm just saying there is an easier way. There is a more peaceful way of trading where you don't care about the patterns, where you don't care about if this SBS is going to work out or not, and you letting the price play out based on your plan that comes from previous day close. it's a different mindset and a different way of trading and it takes time for the paradigm shift to happen but i'm going to emphasize again when i'm opening nq chart and i have the bias from yesterday which is shorts i have a bearish bias because of third day reversal that's what i'm looking for i'm looking for the price to prove me that there is a bearish bias because a lot of people have this problem where they look at the chart and they see bullish as bs and bearish as bs and yes that's why price action is so seductive that's why price action feels like you can predict the next move. But when you realize there are the same patterns on the bearish and bullish side, you start to understand that it's a 50-50 trading environment and it's just not reliable. It just leads to a lot of over trading and confusion and anxiety about price action and trading because you're trying to make a lot of decisions during a small period of time and when you do that your decision quality decreases and then on top of that you have trading which is not a guaranteed outcome and if you go into the losing streak or take a few bad trades it's very easy to go on tilt and that's why i'm trying to advise people to stay away from scalping stay away from price action trading from pattern trading because when you don't have a high time frame bias you're going to result in trying to trade every single move that you see on the one minute or in this case even on the five minute chart so yet again when i'm coming to the five minute chart i'm not looking at the price action pattern to trade i'm not trying to identify the next sbs to trade i am looking on the previous day and have it closed and i have my previous daily close previous daily high i have 20 and 200 sma and then i want to see the price behave the way that fits my plan from yesterday. So on this chart on NASDAQ, obviously the price does not behave the way I want. So when I look at the Dow Jones, this is the price action that actually behaves in the way that I want. So one of the main things that I am looking for for these higher time frame setups is consolidation because consolidation leads to expansion. And then once all of the things are in place, only then I am looking for SBS. I am looking for the 618 retracements. I'm looking for the FIB geometry. This is the first pullback. This is the second pullback prices below the 20 and 200 sma price rejected from highest close of the month after 9 30 there is the 10 o'clock rotation and once i see this during asia london there is this sbs over here right one two actually number three is over here so you have this big sbs and i see this sweep at 8.30 into the UMO and then 9.30 collapses below 20 and 200 SMA. This is all lining up for me to take the trade. The bias from the previous day, consolidation during Asia, during London, price has a fake out at news. So I'm waiting for the news. I'm only trading after the news and then I'm only trading after the 9.30 open. And then I take a trade. So the patterns come after the signal is established, not before, not I'm just feeling like it and I'm going to trade this pattern. There is a specific step-by-step process. We're not just trading random levels. We're trading specific highest close of the month, specific previous daily close previous daily high previous daily low and everything comes together to take a trade in one direction once we have the entry then we just hold the trade and we follow the 20 simple moving average and if price starts to close about 20 simple moving average you might give it one or two candles to see if maybe this was a fake out sometimes as you can see you have a close about the 20 sma and then it continues to drop so you want to let this trade play out at least go to one to one r and in this case the trade dropped to like two r and then i put my stop loss at 1R and I got stopped out at 1R somewhere over here. So I didn't really wait for the 20 SMA, but if I did, I would be stopped out at the same price here, somewhere over here or somewhere about this high for 1R. But the point is that even though this was a third day reversal and we're looking for all of this liquidation, it might not happen today. It might not happen tomorrow. Just because it didn't happen today doesn't mean that the trade was wrong. We are here to make money. The number one goal is to make money on the trade. Once you have all the ducks in a row and you took your entry, follow your management rules just follow your management rules based on your style of trading so if you are holding into the close what is the rule that you get out of the trade the rule is 20 sma if price starts to go back about 20 sma you just close the trade and you don't hold and hope that it might go even lower because again it might not happen today that's the shift in the mindset that's the paradigm shift we are recognizing opportunity on the high time frame chart that's your signal day and then we are taking that opportunity after price lines up with our plan. And then we let the opportunity play out or not. So either price is going to stop you out or it's going to go into your direction for a little bit and then you have to trail it and you get stopped out in some profit or you actually get that absolute banger that extends into the close and even sometimes runs for two or three days. But yet again, if price breaks above or below 20 SMA and you're trailing, that's it, your trade is done. And this is the same process for every single trade. And again, I'm not trying to trade this SBS. I am trying to trade the signal, the bearish signal from the daily chart and I'm trying to get a piece of this move down I'm not trying to get an SBS trade I'm trying to get my money based on opportunity that's in front of me based on opportunity that's been setting up from yesterday and again this opportunity might not be the one that you really really want 10-hour trade that you really really want that's where all the problems in trading come from wrong expectations and if you have wrong expectations that's why you're going to be holding and hoping well this is the first red day and it must extend lower no it doesn't It can go up, down, sideways. It can do whatever it wants to do. And that's why we need to have concrete rule set for ourselves. So we don't go tilt. We just accept the fact that sometimes we're not going to get those 10 R bangers. Sometimes it might look like the 10 R banger is coming, but you get stopped out at 1 R. And that's it. Just close the chart. That was the opportunity for today. And even if it drops lower, and even if it goes to 10 hours later that day, you are done. You followed your rules. You are done with the trade. It really all comes down to following your rules. And the hardest part is walking away from that chart. And it's going to be way harder to walk away from scalping one-minute chart than trying to trade one trade per day, holding into close, one and done, and move on. So pick your trading style. Everything works, but just understand that it doesn't work all the time. Everything works, but it doesn't work all the time. So there is no answer for the question, how do we know if this trade pattern going to work out or not? How do we know if this is a valid pullback? Or how do we know if this high is the protected high? We don't know for sure. We don't. We never will. Because trading is not science. We are trading against people. It's a big auction and everybody trying to make money. So with that being said, this is going to be it for this case study and I will talk to you in the next one. Take care.
