hello stoic traders welcome to another case study today i want to take a look at gbp jpy another forex pair that i am not really tracking right now because i'm not really trading forex But the more I explore the charts, the more I notice that there are also decent setups on GBP, JPY and other Forex pairs. Just goes to show you that you don't have to trade one instrument forever. And in fact, it's better to have a watch list with your instruments. And of course, I'm trying to put a lot of instruments in the warm-up and I will be adding more and more instruments for the warm-up, but you don't have to wait for me. You can even trade stocks and crypto like this. Personally, I prefer trading futures because it's a regulated market. It's a big market, so there is no liquidity issues or anything like that. So that's why I prefer trading futures. But with this higher time frame strategy, you can trade any instrument, any chart. Just make sure that you are following your rules. And just like I say, there's only two setups. Swing failure pattern, which is the sweep of the range, and break and retest. So over here, this is looking like break and retest. We're looking for the consolidation sweep or consolidation break and retest because there is only two things that price does over and over again. Consolidation leads to expansion and expansion leads back to consolidation. And that cycle is fractal. That cycle repeats over and over again on every time frame. On the daily chart, you might see the consolidation, but also on the lower time frame, there is consolidation over here. These are daily candles and you can see consolidation leads to expansion. And also over here, this was a break and retest. And over here, this was a sweep, swing failure pattern of this smaller consolidation. and the more you zoom in into the charts you will notice consolidation leads to expansion then we have another consolidation here right you got the sweep and here there is not really a break and retest because sometimes you're going to have stuff like this and maybe price comes back down in the future and does this retest we don't really know but at the moment when the chart's setting up, that's what we're looking for. We're looking for the sweep of the range or break and retest of the range. That's only two setups that we trade, and that's the only two setups that we will need to trade any chart on any time frame. But we take it a step further, and we're basing our trades on the higher time frame signals, on the daily signals. Keeping this all in mind that we are in the range breakout on the higher time frame, we have the range high, price breaking out. And of course, it's not going to happen all the time. But when the price behaves and it does what we want, then we can take the trades during the day. But if price doesn't follow our plan, we just don't trade the chart. so i'm going to show you what happened during these days and what kind of trades you could have taken based on our high time frame stoic edge system so here's that very first red day after highest close of the month you can see there's multiple higher closes we have the breakout out and we are at the highest close of the month so from the previous case studies you might notice that first red day or first green day usually is not really clean and this is what happened on the first red day after rejecting from the highest close of the month so the bias for this day was short. You can see highest close of the month. And price here drives down, sweeps the previous daily low, and then goes back up. And maybe you could have tried to short this during the London session. Of course, not a very clean consolidation. When we see such a sweeps like this, this is not a very clean consolidation. But even if you ignore that, even if you just followed the 20 and 200 SMA, there is your 3 a.m. Price breaks back below 20, 200 SMA. Let's say you shorted this here. The stop loss should be about the swing high or even about this high, but depends on your risk tolerance. The more you risk, the more you gain. But even if you entered over here, this would be a break-even trade because price got back about 20 SMA. Maybe you waited for the scandal because sometimes as you may notice on the five minute chart sometimes this is a fake out and not necessarily a reversal depends how you manage this trade this could have been a break even or it could have been a nice decent profit maybe three hour for the london session the price goes back up sweeps the london session open which is also a sbs model 2 10 a.m rotation right and if you shorted below 20 and 200 sma here this would be a break-even trade there is no losses on this day but you can see that sometimes the first red day might not look very good the signal aligned 20 200 sma aligned but the price didn't really behave like we wanted to behave. And it's okay. Like I said, we don't have control over price. It's not about predicting the next move. It's about survival first. And these guardrails, these rules that we have, identifying template, identifying highest close of the month, identifying SBS and 2200 SMA, and only entering below 2200 SMA. Those rules are letting us survive. And the longer we survive, the higher chances we have eventually trading bigger moves. So maybe you've been taking break-evens and maybe 1R, 2R, 3R throughout the week, for two weeks, three weeks, and sometimes you get a big trade. Sometimes you get 5, 6R, 10R trade. But you will not get those trades if you keep blowing up in between. It's all about preserving capital first so you can actually take advantage of those bigger opportunities when they present themselves. but you won't be able to trade them if you constantly blow up on the boring days, on the days where price goes nowhere. So moving on to the next day and this would be a first red day signal and we have consolidation leads to expansion and also there is more consolidation to the left. You just don't see it on a picture but yet again this is the move that we are looking for and this was on friday the first thread day happened on thursday and on friday we had this move down right into the february hcom which was the range high on the higher time frame yet again previous daily close previous daily low rejection from hcom everything lining up there was not really an SBS in here. This pullback I measured as the very first pullback. It makes sense. Over here you can measure this pullback also but you can see the targets lining up into the February HCOM. Beautiful trade here if you are trading after 9 30 a.m. Price staying below 2200 SMA. this is your entry stop loss goes above the swing point and you write this down into the February Hcom if you are being greedy you get stopped out a bit higher not a big deal holding too close you're still in a decent profit and this is where you get those 5R trades this is where you get bangers but you're not going to get this banger unless you are surviving the boring days the surviving the days where you don't make a lot of money but the goal of those days is not to lose a lot of money not to blow up so even if you take minus two hour for the day walk away because more likely or not, if you keep pushing that day, you will blow up because each day is different. You might have the right higher timeframe target, but price might not go today. It might be tomorrow. But if you don't survive today, you will not have a chance tomorrow. So moving on to the next day, After the price bounced at the February H-com, we have this reversal and there is a 3 a.m. Price breaks out. I measured this over here. You have the 423 as the final target. That was the close of the day. And this was a decent day. It wasn't 5-6 our moves. But if you traded, let's say, London, this low never got swept here. So let's say you bought this right at London Open at 3 a.m. You bought it and you held it to here. Maybe you took, I don't know, one and a half hour. Well, guess what? You didn't lose money, but you took a trade when all of your rules aligned. We had the signal, which was the third day reversal. You have the first red day. second red day goes into the February HCOM, this acting as support, and you have the first green day. Yet again, the first green day might not be a very good day, but we take it regardless because the rules lines up. And it gives us bias, staying above PDC, staying above 2200 SMA. This is a good bias and it provided some decent trades after 9 30 you can enter here let's say you waited for the 20 sma close there is your entry stop loss should be below the low and you got maybe i don't know 2r maybe even 3r like i said not every day is going to be that big move and we need to be okay with that we need to have those expectations because if we have expectation of oh every day is going to be 10R, then we're going to end up trying to catch the 10R while blowing up, while taking minus 1R, minus 1R, minus 1R, arguing with the market. So just keep it slow and steady and you eventually will get that big move, get the 10R. But you have to protect your capital first. Moving on to the next day, this is a first green day signal. And you can see that sometimes even after the first green day, you still might not get the very clean move. And yet again, you have to be okay with this. And this is one of the hardest things to accept because we want certainty as traders. We want to know if this trade is going to work out or not. but we can't know that we never going to know that and you have to be okay with that there is a paradigm shift that needs to happen in your head that we are not looking for the every little move we are not looking to predict the next move we are looking to take bets it's just a bet and behind that bet, there is a step-by-step process. That's how you should be looking at trading. You are taking bets and you cannot judge your own ability to trade based on individual bets. Your ability to trade is to consistently place the same bet over and over and over again. that's the job of the trader is not to predict the next move but to consistently place the same bet over and over and over again because if you do that you will develop your edge that is the edge of a trader is the discipline and consistency of executing the same thing over and over and over and over again. And it might not look the same on the chart. It's not necessary the same pattern that we are executing every time, but we are executing the same logic. It's either break and retest or it's swing failure pattern. It's the same logic. It has to stay about 2200 SMA. hey, the rules never change. So don't change them just because one or two days were bad days or they were very slow. Or it might look like the strategy doesn't work. In the right hands, any strategy could work. It's all about the trader. And you can see during this day, 3 a.m. was over here. If you shorted, you probably got stopped out. Or maybe you got stopped out at breakeven. If you shorted here, you got stopped out at breakeven or maybe lost minus one hour. And it's okay. It will happen. If we abandon strategy on the days when it doesn't work, we will never be able to capitalize on the opportunities when the strategy does work. So keep that in mind because it's a very important mindset shift that needs to happen. Also, let me show you what happened on crude oil because I traded crude oil. I didn't have bangers. I didn't have very big trades, but I made profit. As you can see over here, this was a range low. Yet again, I am trading swing failure pattern and targeting March HCOM from LCOM back to the HCOM. So this is the second half of the month. Everything's lining up. We get the first green day. And after that first green day, we have this big SBS over here. There is the sweep of the SBS. 3 a.m. You can enter here or wait until the price gets about 2200 SMA. This would be maybe a good trade. If you waited for the 930, this would be amazing hold. Very nice trade for the London traders. For the New York traders also, 930. And I think I caught this move after, I'm not sure right now, but I took a little piece of this move. This was a nice trade from previous daily close to previous daily high. The next day, yet again, we have that previous daily high from the day before. I marked it as support break and retest. Because if you see over here, this is a simple break and retest based on previous daily candle. right so you have the sbs there is the 3 a.m london session here dip you got the sfp during the london session based on the five minute structure this is your break and retest of the sfp this could be a nice trade in london most likely you get stopped out and break even because this reversal but then during the new york session if you entered over here that's what i did I had my stop loss right below the slow and I got very lucky. I didn't look at the chart. Most of the time I'm just holding it too close. So I'm not really looking at the chart. But I got very lucky because my stop loss was a few ticks below the slow and the price didn't sweep lower. It just swept barely, created the SBS. And this was a beautiful trade. I took like 3R on this trade. and it was a slow week for me as far as trading, but I made profit. I didn't blow up and that's what matters. And to end this case study, I want to show you what happened on Friday. I was in this trade. I took this trade on YM. I was trying to see if we can start moving lower based on this Monday box. You can treat this Monday box as opening range for the week. so you want to see the price either extending from the box or sweeping the box and trading back inside as you can see over here sweeping the box or sometimes you could sweep the whole box and go back down like this but the Monday every Monday you should mark out because it's important day of the week it's a start of the week and you can frame the whole week just by marking out Monday but i took this trade after 9 30 this candle dropped i took the short and i had my uh stop loss about here so i waited a whole day and then at the close i just closed it for minus half hour and this is what makes the big difference for traders is the ability to just take one trade have a proper stop loss even if you put your stop loss about here and you realize that you're getting nowhere just leave it you took the trade you committed to the trade right price goes down below pdc price goes down below 2200 sma everything lines up that's it your trade is done you're either going to get stopped out or you're going to make profit. So when the price went and closed over here, I just closed my trade. And that was it. That was my one and done trade for Friday. And if I were just scalping and trying to force trades, trying to expect big moves, I would be chopped up in this move. I would be chopped up, especially on one minute chart. This is brutal. And this is why we're following our rules. So we can survive this type of price action. Because we don't really know when it comes. It might come today. It might come tomorrow, next week. I don't know. But we want to be in the best position in order to capitalize on that big move when it comes. So with that being said, this is going to be it for this case study, and I will talk to you in the next one. Take care.
