good morning stoic traders welcome back to another live trading session today's tuesday we had a big gap as you can see on monday i waited for the weekly opening range to develop there it is weekly opening range so pretty much looking for the sweep or break and retest of the pdh pdc so this is now new york opening range as you can see price swept here so what i'm going to be looking for is breakout of this opening range and we're going to look for the sfp or break and retest always the same thing nothing else really interesting that i see um we got fomc on wednesday tomorrow probably not going to be trading tomorrow but thursday i would be looking for the really good setup on thursday after the wednesday fomc so i'm just gonna wait for this to resolve this is now asia london new york as you can see all of them stacked asia london new york and what do you see is the consolidation and consolidation should lead to some kind of either expansion or reversal we'll see but that's the nq that's a little sbs here on the lower time frames looks like the other charts yes is still inside weekly opening range the ym swept weekly opening range very nicely here but this is a big opening range for new york bitcoin i don't want to do anything inside of the weekly opening range gold the same way inside cl don't want to touch it so really only nq and gbp usd look like a good long but we'll see what happens i might look for gbp usd trade but would like to see the NQ and Q could be very good long trade let me see if I can risk one can't really risk one contract so I'll be watching M and Q micros we'll see how this goes there's a lot of of fake outs here as you can see now there is a 10 o'clock and now i'm gonna be looking for break and retest or swing failure parent it's not that complicated we just watching this play out if i'll get a close below the low i will jump in and this is why we don't rush in during the opening range because it can be chopping around all day all right let's see if we can get a close below the opening range i would go in with um a trade stop loss about this high i'm gonna have a starter with four micros let's see where we close three two one all right four micros and depends what kind of break and retest we get here I'm going to probably add some more so far this is break and retest I just shorted after the close below the opening range this is a nice rejection after PDC hcom see I can start going back in with more we'll see where we go I think we're gonna go all the way back down but how far back down so based on the fifth geo this is the 686 target we can also measure this one over here this is also a measurement like this 423 686 into the pdl that's what i would like to see i would like to see the pdl if pdl can work out that would be beauty absolute beauty we can also take this pullback as the big pullback 423 yeah just gonna let it ride i kind of want to add more let me see if i've got appropriate risk yeah 900 maybe i can add one more but let's see if this closes as inside candle i will add more inside candle i'm gonna go with sell stop adding more just a little bit um risk is still at about thousand dollars we rejected from the hcom i don't believe this is going to come back this is not this shouldn't be reversing or anything like that i am really thinking about pdl that would be the full scenario and also below the pdl there is a gap so on daily chart i am looking for the pdl right we have a perfect sweep beautiful let's get it to pdl previous high of the week really to close this gap right 21 29 831 it would be to close the gap there is a 1000 profit and if we measure the first pullback the meaningful pullback is here this is the first meaningful pullback so see 423 and going into the 686 this is where i would like to see my profits 423 hopefully i'm not that greedy but we'll see what's going on i'm just gonna let this ride drop into the may h come and then we'll see where it ends up but the trade is done the trade has been taken and we're just gonna let this ride need to place my stop loss at break even i think we had a proper break and retest on the five minute chart so we'll see i'll give it a little bit of room but i'm gonna be placing my stop loss at break even very soon down pullbacks are nice pullbacks are very nice this is could be uh inside candle also inside candle leads to another expansion so we'll see how it goes we'll see what it does the trade is done there's nothing else to do nothing to overthink just keep going yeah it's bouncing from this over here this is what it bouncing from this is why i didn't want to put my stop at breakeven i have mixed feelings about breakeven sometimes i like it sometimes i don't and there is not really a right or wrong answer so after this pullback i'm gonna put my stop loss at breakeven yeah let me put my stop loss at breakeven it's really not no reason for me to not move my stop loss to break even because if it sweeps then it's a bullish sbs this small like inside candle sweep high and now trade back down below i think it's a good stop loss for me right now break even trade is done risk-free no reason to be sweating anymore so just let it ride let it play out whatever the outcome is it's already done this could be a break even that's fine i'm okay with break-evens they're annoying they're very annoying but it is what it is i might rather have a break even get stopped out at break even then price completely reverse and stop me out and i understand that sometimes i'm going to get out at break even and the price still goes to my direction still gives me five six r but i missed the trade it is what it is guys i don't know what to tell you anymore it's just there is no perfect way you cannot expect a perfect way from price action because a complete monkey a complete degenerate can just press buy or sell and end up in the same trade as you and they didn't do extra work they don't know extra stuff that you don't know it's just they got lucky and they end up with the market while you are here trying to justify well when when this going here and there when the price does this and that, and when the backflip occurs, then you can expect. It's ridiculous. You're never going to know for sure. So if this has momentum and it starts going back up with a big momentum, don't fight it. You know, even the prices below 2200 SMA, when the price has huge momentum going the other way and at bouncing from some low, don't fight that momentum. Just accept that the price is going to do what it's going to do and your job as a trader is to manage risk. That's it. So that's what we're doing, managing risk. So this is a free trade and we're just letting it ride. What a beautiful sell-off. Nice. beautiful just gonna let it run well kind of a big bounce here maybe we can sweep something but really don't want it to go back about this high just gonna trail it and see Yeah, if it starts recovering, I don't want to give up profits. So I'm going to place it even tighter stop loss. Yeah, looks like I'm going to get stopped out here probably. Most likely. Unless we just have a nice retest of the 20 SMA. This is also a retest of this over here. could be SBS model one on one minute chart not quite see it can sweep this over here that's why I have it just a little bit higher stop loss I mean, we really would like to see May Hcom and then even PDL. Yeah, we'll see. I'm gonna go get some lunch, whatever. We'll see if we can trade back to PDL. That would be the best. Gonna trade on my phone. all right i'm back it kicked me out of the account so let me lock back in beautiful trade wow absolute beauty love to see it look at this mm-hmm may hcom coming in hot may hcom 2618 really would like to see pdl getting hit nicely that would be nice very nice just gonna trail my stop a bit as far as the lower time frames this is the sbs here so if this fails probably need to get out of the trade but that's sbs if you look at this low right this low breaks that's the first pullback right and that's the sweep the other sbs is on top of here of course am i gonna risk this i don't really want to risk it but sometimes that's just how it goes this is more of a range how you can treat the range and how you can understand it is just measure it so what you can do you can take the fib you measure the range and there is the 50 retracement so the 50 this is the turning point for the range so it could do this and then it could do this or it could go in another direction so that's the range and we're developing the range you can even put the volume profile it's all about the trade anyhow but tools are not that important if we put the volume profile let me see which one is the correct one fixed ranged volume profile so if I just drop it like this you can see that we can move back above over here where is the point of control let me see why is it not showing there is the point of control so there is the problem here right this point of control if it's holding then we're gonna move to the other side of the range it doesn't really matter this is the decision of just taking profit or you're gonna get stopped out but this is how you can watch see the point of control this is a big point of control of course why because we have the range so if this point of control given up then we might move even lower you can use points of control and the developments of the ranges like with the volume profile it will give you some areas that you can look for but it's just a range it doesn't matter it doesn't matter see it can go up here and stop me out and that would be 2r it doesn't matter what i say the market is going to do what it's going to do but this is how you can create a scenario for every move you know oh it's this is three higher closes and we're going to go down now and all kinds of stuff so yeah this is just consolidating here at the sbs if this bounce here it's going to go higher so i'm just gonna put this stop loss just even a little bit lower because if it's going back it's going back i believe so we'll see there is like a gap here so this could serve as the support level we can still drop into lower right would like to see the pdl if i get the pdl that would be amazing i'm not sure about this measurement though technically it is a first pullback like on a higher time frame this was the very first pullback at the top but we surpassed it we can also measure this pullback during the new york open so you can see the 423 right beautiful trade i would say into the 423 i'm trying to trail it trying to hold it and that's my style of trading and sometimes it will look brilliant sometimes it will look stupid and that's just with any trading strategy i am betting on the trending days so that's why i skipped monday yesterday because it was opening range for the week and also very important we gapped up we gapped up on sunday and opened up higher so that's the whole point why you want to avoid trading um monday because monday is likely to be consolidation especially after a big expansion overnight so expansion leads to consolidation consolidation leads to expansion so that's what happened right it gapped up it went up during monday and you have consolidation you got the swing failure pattern on the top consolidation breaks retest look how the new york lined up with the break retest of this consolidation and that's the whole point consolidation leads to expansion keep it very simple these are just ranges and trends there's nothing complicated about price action traders make it complicated there's nothing complicated about trading itself it's the trader's perspective and how they think about it so you want to think about like you don't know anything about trading because the funny part is that the more you try to be smart about trading the more it's going to humble you the more it will work against you it's just how it is sometimes but the more simple the if you keep it simple then you always can find like a simple reason for your mind to get over it right so if you are winning why are you winning well because this was a consolidation to expansion very simple concept new york break and retest there's only two setups and instead of trying to understand like maybe smt or some kind of order block or trying to understand all kinds of crap about price action not saying that it doesn't work everything works sometimes But why do we need to fill up our head with all the garbage? Just remove all the garbage that doesn't really work, that works very badly and only use the things that work very good. And that's my whole point of teaching trading is I only want to share the tools and concepts and patterns, whatever that might be, that works extremely well. and that's how i'm doing it i'm testing the tools i'm testing the things and if i find something better i use that but most of it is built on the foundation of understanding that consolidation leads to expansion it's basic market structure and understanding of basic market structure led me to studying things like Wyckoff and Elliot waves and I simply only keep the things that work very well that fit inside my system and all I'm doing is sharing with you guys my system my personal system that I trust and I trust it because I've been trading it because I've been executing and now I am more and more comfortable putting more size behind it. Most of you saw me from the beginning of this year upgrading the system and starting with $100 risk and then moving to $200 risk, $500 risk and now I'm at $1,000 risks. So unless I can consistently scale and increase my risk, I'm never going to be making, you know, big returns with trading. And there is nothing wrong with just making, you know, $5,000 a month or $10,000 a month with trading. That's fine. And you can be comfortable just doing that. But I'm all about less is more. I want to take less trades with bigger risk and get bigger reward. because the reality of trading is that more trades you take the more chances are that you're going to screw it up the more chances are that you're going to be emotional will go on tilt and all kinds of stuff so the less trades you take the less exposure you have so the less exposure to the market you have the better you're going to be so you want to maximize every single trade so instead of trying to time the trades and trying to go long and short and all kinds of stuff you simply commit to the direction you commit to the trade and the plan and the thesis and be more strategic with your trading it's way different than trying to be smart and quote exploit price action you trying to exploit market means that you are trying to be smarter than the market which you never will be because it's moving all the time it's changing all the time some trader can put a lot of size and wick you out of the trade there's all kinds of things could happen in a market that are unpredictable so the game becomes about adaptability we adapting to the conditions and in order to adapt to conditions you simply follow your system you don't know what conditions might be today right but you executing the system so if i don't know what conditions might be today I waited for the New York opening range to play out and I see that it didn't go up it broke down and it closed below the opening range on a five-minute chart and it retested it and I even added more after the retest so that's the behavior that my system designed to exploit if the market comes back up and stops me out and i lose the trade that means that my system my strategy and plan is not aligned with the market all i need to know is the market going to be aligned with my plan today and if it is i pull the trigger it's not an easy task to understand that but that's the skill that's the skill that we need to develop is trying to think that way think in the way of risk management and positioning trying to capitalize on the moves and this is why i no longer trying to read the market that much i'm I'm not trying to read price action. I'm really trying to stay open-minded and level-headed and trying to just let the market do what it wants to do. It's like over here. This is now reversing, right? But my stop loss in place. I'm not trying to get out early. I'm not trying to switch to the longs. I'm just letting the trade play out this is now the end of the day I'm not trying to trade the last hour of the day this could be just a 3 p.m. retracement and then we can still go down lower or maybe this is it for the day I don't know and I am going to let the market show me what it is what it's going to be so far this is the move so far this was the move for the day and we caught the majority of the move did i catch top and bottom during london session i should have i was awake at 7 a.m i mean i was awake i mean i saw the chart or whatever but was I entering because I think this was SFP or whatever. I'm not entering here. I'm not even entering on this retracement. This was the SBS. Right? This over here is SBS. But I'm not entering on SBS. I'm waiting for my rules. I'm waiting for this. Break down below. price below 2200 sma price below both opening ranges asia london right everything lining up for me to take this short trade and this is how i build the confidence and commitment to take this position that's what i'm talking about when i say commitment so at first we need to generate trade idea and that's the same as i'm doing in the warm-up what it is is i'm generating trade ideas then the next day i'm coming into the market and i'm looking for the price to confirm my trade idea i'm looking for the behavior in price and then i'm also looking for the timing the right timing which is going to be right after the new york opening range the best timing and of course there's some days going to be that this is not going to be the best timing but probabilities are that it's better to wait for the opening range that's just what it is that's why i'm waiting for the opening range because i let the initial balance to settle and that's all it is you're just being more patient than others patience usually is the answer but sometimes you're going to miss moves and you got to be okay with that ideally we just want to take trades and don't even think about them because we understand that at any moment market can do something that would be surprising to us so therefore there's anything can happen so we need to just accept the risk and that's the the whole answer to trading if you can be indifferent towards the outcome if you can handle risk the best trader is the one that doesn't need the money at all and is doing it for the love of the game and that's the the best trader is always going to be the one that doesn't need the money the one that can risk ten thousand dollars hundred thousand dollars or whatever and they just don't care that's the best trader that trader doesn't care about the outcome at all and solely focusing on managing trades i'm gonna put my stop loss a bit lower right about this sbs because if it's going to recover it could it'll be about two and a half hour two and a half hour profit would like to see it keep dropping but it's a tough candle here this is a big doji that could spike a reversal like i said i'm not the one who's going to just uh sell it because it hit me hcom i'm not looking to catch bottoms and catch tops so just like over here i was not looking to catch this top i'm not looking to catch this bottom over here either so i'm totally fine with just capturing piece of the move i might be trying to catch this right so let's say i exit on this candle and it reverses but what if it goes back down below and now i'm out of the trade because i got spooked because i sold too early so it depends what kind of feelings you would like to deal with just like with moving your stop loss to break even some people don't like getting stopped out at break even over and over again but some people prefer getting stopped out over and over again at break even because it's safer it's protecting them from the potential minus one r and it's just how it is sometimes i would put the stop loss at break even sometimes not and usually my best rule is to move the stop loss to break even after plus one r that's what i did today and it depends what kind of rules you follow good rejection let me lock it in the stop loss lower as we're getting closer and closer to the market close there is no reason for me to now give away this profit so i'm just going to lock it in this is about 2800 here that i lock it in guaranteed for me to walk away today and yet again this is what the one hour trader looks like i execute in the morning so my plan is very simple i come to the market and i wait for this first 30 minutes i don't even open chart until 10 o'clock well of course i know what's going on i glance at it or whatever but But it's just you can come to the market after 30 minutes of your session. You can come in here. As you can see, look at this. This was a sweep, right? Nice trade during London session. I don't trade London, but this was New York. So I trade New York. Beautiful. I take a trade right after 10 o'clock candle closed. Take a trade. Put my stop loss over here. take one more trade here just to add more exposure just to double down kind of in a way on my position because i know i i am in a good position this is a good setup based on the weekly opening range sweep based on the asia opening range london opening range this is obvious consolidation right so what we have consolidation leads to expansion and i only spend time on the charts maybe like an hour so that's what i'm saying one hour trader because after you took a position you just trail you want to keep trailing that's all you want to do because why would you want to sacrifice this great position why do you want to close position that's running into your direction especially if you are trading a system that is designed to capitalize on the trend on the trending days this is what we are doing with this higher time frame framework is that we are trying to capitalize on the trending days and avoid ranging days it's easier said than done of course but that's why i have a rule where i just don't fight with the market if it wants to stay inside of the opening range fine even if i have to take loss and walk away that's the only thing we can do that's the way walk away is the way so just letting market to play out and we'll see this is uh very likely we're going to continue lower to that 686 so we'll see where we go in holding and trailing beautiful breakdown towards the end of the day let's see if we can accelerate lower that would be amazing sometimes it runs after hours so I'm gonna put my stop loss even lower now this is locked in thirty five hundred dollars or three thousand not quite sure something like in that range three thousand dollars I think it's locked in here so three are This might be could be SBS but I'm not gonna touch my stop loss. This is now past close and I'm just maximizing and trying to see if this is going to drop into PDL. And tomorrow for me is gonna be no trade day because of the FOMC. Usually the morning session consolidates before you FOMC. So I'm not really looking to scalp anything. And I'll be looking to trade on Thursday. And if I can have a nice trade on Thursday, Friday could be no trading day for me. And nowadays I look forward to no trading days. Because I know that I just need a couple of good trades for a week and I'll be good. I don't need to be chasing anything. Two good trades for me. It's like 8 to 10R for the week. We'll see what it's going to do. I'm going to give it another 20 minutes. And then I'll be done. Alright, this is it. $4100. Beautiful trade, I would say. textbook swing failure pattern from PDH. PDH is the weekly opening range that was Monday and you have a beautiful trade today. There is the trade on the daily chart into the May Hcom. I was trying to get it down to the PDL and And tomorrow could be an interesting day. But tomorrow FOMC. Personally I'm not really going to be trading FOMC. I'm going to be observing it. And we'll check on Thursday what kind of setup. But this is currently a sweep of the weekly opening range and monthly opening range. As you can see over here. Weekly, monthly opening range. Beautiful setup. So with that being said, this is going to be it for this live trading session. And I will talk to you in the next one. Take care.
