hello stoic traders welcome back to another case study and in this video i'm going to talk about russell and we're going to take a look at this trade opportunity that just happened this last week on Thursday. Beautiful opportunity. Textbook, I would say. What I want to point out is a higher time frame and the setup that was on the higher time frame. As I always say, there is only two setups. There is a swing, failure pattern, you can call it whatever you want. It's just simple sweep of the range and this is the range that we had on russell and this is also a sbs model too we have the move origin the move origin is somewhat unmitigated there is a gap right and we come down into the move origin this is over here a sweep of the range so the sweep of the sbs you have the first time you have the sweep again and then we have the test so as long as this holds and gets back about this range this is a sweep this is all part of the accumulation. If you want to learn about Wyckoff, research some Wyckoff schematics, but I simplified Wyckoff into two setups, swing failure pattern and break and retest. There are only two setups. Do not try to trade in the middle. When you see a sweep of the range, your first trade idea is this, is getting back about 20 SMA, getting back about this range. This was a break and retest of that range, even though this retest didn't reach all the way down here. But as you can see over here, how the climax works for the Wyckoff, you have the selling climax, automatic rally, and this is how the accumulation range is set. And you can see this was the Wyckoff schematic breakout and retest. This is the same thing that's happening over here. And this sweep on the lower time frame is the same thing that's happening over here. Every single time. There is only two setups. Swing failure pattern, break and retest. Keep it simple. And you can trade these two setups on any chart, on any timeframe, but the higher the timeframe, the better these setups going to work. So this is how the Russell looked like. And on Thursday, everything lined up perfectly for this third day reversal. This is also consolidation. And if we can get back about April HCOM, we can start expanding higher and higher. and this was really the best setup the best chart we could have traded on thursday so this is how nasdaq looked as you can see there is also a range on the nasdaq we have range high range low and you can see yet again there was a sweep of the range even though this might not look like some kind of sbs this is still a sweep of the range swing failure pattern and you can see price gets back above retest and continuation higher there is not really an accumulation range in this case and this was just a v-shape reversal sometimes you're going to have these and especially watch out for the sweep and test and this test is going to be the best trade if you can get on the test stop loss below here the target is the range high and you can hold past target you can trail it but what happened on russell is that we retested it and on nq there was no retest so i just simply don't trade nq because it's not lining up with my thesis also dow jones Dow Jones never broke the range high. So Dow Jones never broke the all-time high. And you can see over here also I have marked out the highest close of this month. And you can see how these levels become levels of support and resistance. So currently right now we are trading in this area. And this is not a good area to pick trades in between. So I was pointing out throughout my whole warm-up is that we're looking for this bounce and that's what we got on thursday i didn't trade it because i was looking at russell russell looked really good because of that higher time frame break and retest and yet again you can see sweep right so there is your sweep there's maybe little retest and there is a sweep of this low so yet again this was like a v-shape reversal harder to enter the test area is over here so we didn't really quite reach that but that's the trade is the sweep test and continuation higher and the target right now is the range high it is the target for this from sweep to the range high. You don't have to hold it to the range high if you are holding the swing trade, but that's the thesis. You got the sweep and the target is the range high. And then maybe we can have a break and retest. Also, there is the S&P 500. And you can see how we kind of have the same range you have there again. V-shape reversal with a test. The test is the entry. So if you enter the test, you hold it to the high. And that's your trade number one. You can try to hold it past it, but trade number two would be break and retest. Haven't happened on S&P 500 yet. Maybe it will never happen. We never know. But we only want to take the trades that line up with our thesis. So there was the Russell perfect break and retest. range high very clean range high you have break consolidation price drives down into the january hcom these are the most important levels the highest daily close for this month from here to here this was the highest daily close and that's exactly what we retested notice 20 sma lining up as a support and this was a beautiful day to trade and here's that trade i actually took this trade at 10 a.m right before the 10 a.m rotation i had a limit order here so it was a break and retest i entered at the limit order my stop loss was right below here and i took about half of this move i got stopped out over here it was my mistake i trailed it too close and i got stopped out few ticks below but that was it that was my trade for the day i didn't try to re-enter i was just following my rules and i broke my rule so i didn't want to re-enter after breaking my rules but this was absolutely textbook consolidation leading to expansion consolidation throughout asia throughout london and new york has a beautiful breakout you got 9 30 open price breaks out this is a clear level of resistance that now acting as support absolutely beautiful and you have the only way is up into the close notice there was a sweep of the previous daily low and the previous daily close so you got the sweep reversal yet again you can trade the same thing sweep test this was the entry at the 3 a.m london you can wait for the price to get back about 2200 SMA there is a little SBS in here also so that would be the London trade and you would have to hold for this consolidation after New York open and it goes up higher but if you're just trailing behind the structure you would be all right so this was a very nice trade and these are the trades that we are waiting for these are the trades that we are staying patient for and not trying to catch every single move. Because if you try to catch every single scalp and move every day, then you might blow up or you might take a bunch of losses. And then when the big opportunity comes, you don't have enough capital or you sell too early because you think it's a scalp. Make sure you understand what game you are playing. Because if you are playing one and done, holding too close, these are the trades that you want to wait for these are the trades that you want to count on anticipate and this was yet again thursday textbook price action textbook setup you have consolidation throughout three sessions and a beautiful expansion these are the trades that we want these are the trades that we are looking for and these are the trades you should be back testing if you are trading this style one and done hold into close. Also, if you notice, this was Monday range over here. So you got Tuesday, Wednesday drives down into the January H.com and Thursday we have reversal targeting Monday range. And you can see how after we liquidated Monday range, that's where the price closed for the day. Beautiful setup yet again. That's one those weekly tendencies when we have price extending from monday expect thursday friday to trade back into the monday range beautiful textbook setup so with that being said this is going to be it for this case study and i will talk to you in the next one take care
