good morning stoic traders welcome back to another live trading session today's thursday right after nfp payrolls this is the only trading event that i am willing to trade before 9 30. so we'll see what happens i'm looking for the longs on gold looking for the shorts on nq which could be a nice short in here looks like it yes ym btc gc bitcoin is actually looking for the long in here and i am looking for the long on bitcoin because it's been selling off quite a bit so let me just get long on bitcoin on the buy stop Yeah, NQ is selling out. Gold. The Bitcoin is a bit risky because NQ is selling off here. ES is selling off. Could be a nice short. This is also SBS on NQ. I am looking for the shorts on NQ but I would love to see it go back down below here. Yeah, Bitcoin is going to get triggered here I think for the long trade. If NQ closing back below the 2200 SMA I'm going to be looking for the short on NQ. all right so bitcoin is now i have the bitcoin trade we'll see i'm gonna let this run that's the problem is that bitcoin and nq is a correlation and they should be moving together they don't have to be moving together but they should be I really want to shorten Q though. If it gives me a close below 200 SMA I will shorten NQ. Bitcoin had a nice bounce here and I'm actually gonna buy more of the Bitcoin. and that's where my stop loss is going to be yeah i think i can get like eight more yeah i'm gonna load up more on the buy stop and q bouncing which is pretty good for me as far as the bitcoin trade yeah if it's uh breaking out it's going to be great this is a break in retus from the monthly opening range from the weekly opening range all right now let's see I'm trying to see how much am I risking right now yeah 28 thousand yeah that's where it is so my stop loss is good has a little bit of room just in case they want to come back and sweep it which they shouldn't be doing that at all and i can actually maybe add even more let's add like four more and then we will have the stop loss right below that candle if this engulfing candle fails is just going to be really unfortunate but it is where it is i'm gonna have a buy stop there adding to my winning position there is the rest of the contracts so my stop loss right below this low and Q recovering gold is going higher even CL is gonna break out here I have a feeling but this is my trades i got the bitcoin all right let's see the targets as far as bitcoin targets that's what that was the sweep right so technically speaking this is going to be the trend based so like this all right so the targets are set previous high of the week looking very nicely oh nq is actually collapsing here i really want to shorten q see if nq selling off the bitcoin is gonna sell off too so i'm gonna shorten q stop loss above here take profit doesn't matter but i'm gonna short and queue if we go back down below pdl because right now it's still not clear yeah three i'm just gonna watch bitcoin if this fails i'm gonna shorten q yeah interesting here let's see what we can do as far as volume profile this is a break and retest right over here right if this break and retest fails it's just gonna go back down all right beautiful looks like bitcoin is trying to break out here probably need to put my stop loss at break even here yeah it's gonna stop me out i guess let me move this stop loss it got one contract sold if this goes down i'm gonna shorten q yep i'm shorting in q Hold on. I might even close the Bitcoin trade. I'm shortening Q. Yeah, this is a nice shortening Q, I believe. 1000... All right. I have a love and hate relationship with these break-evens, man. It's just... Sometimes I just hate break-evens. And I think that maybe I should just stop doing break-evens at all. It's just every time, man. it's so frustrating to do a break-even trade and then even it's more frustrating when you remove the break-even and it goes to your stop loss and you take minus one hour when you could have just had a break-even i think nq is gonna sell off here i'm thinking closing this bitcoin and break-even it's just closing below the 20sma let me close this minus 0.4 r and we're gonna watch nq beautiful yes nq should go down this was an sbs on enqueue this over here yeah beautiful sbs this is also monthly opening range in here there's also probably a weekly opening range let me see the weekly opening range we are getting back inside the weekly opening range so this is pretty good i planned it i was looking for the shorts and that's where we got it we got the shorts the bitcoin is a bit um let's see the bitcoin looks like it's going to go down so i sold it at minus 0.4 r not the full r loss so that's okay if this bounce fails it's gonna be a waterfall let's see what we have as far as the first pullback yeah nothing much there let me see a higher time frame really this is the first pullback not impressed 686 still has room to run lower This is actually a FIB geometry from this here. From this high to the low to the high. You see the 2618 lining up? So June Elcom is really enticing. June Elcom. If we can sell off all the way down there, that would be amazing. We'll see. this needs to fail and then we can play with break events and trailing i just i i really hate them those break events are love and hate relationship sometimes they helpful sometimes they annoying not really right or wrong this is actually trend based pip we can set this over here let's see that's a hundred percent two six one eight four twenty three and six eight six see this cluster over here I would love to see a sell-off down into there so we'll see if it does anything but that's the plan that's a break and retest of the opening range so we a sweep of the new york opening range and then go back down yeah this is break even after that rejection this is break even it should not go back up this was a beautiful sbs one two three four five yeah i'm gonna place my stop loss now below here no reason to give up that much profit so as long as we keep selling off this is gonna be good gotta put this stop loss a bit higher because we can sweep this SBS or we can do this SBS we can also put the volume profile on this try to understand see this pocket over here this is where it might sweep into it and then reverse so see that's the pocket of liquidity here and if we get into this pocket it should reverse you see it over here you see it over here you could spike into this pocket and reverse back down Alright, so this was a nice SBS. I'm gonna put my stop loss now about there. No reason for it to go back up. 2618 is a good target itself. But what if we can drop to the 423? gonna put my stop loss lower it might come back for these highs here and try to sweep something we'll see yeah this is probably it here i'm just gonna put my stop loss right about the scandal it would be about 3500 dollars 3.5 r i'll take it all right this is it guys pretty good trade i would say broke my losing streak today so that's pretty good for the week i am up 1.5 r well actually one r because i lost i lost uh 400 on bitcoin so that's about half an hour loss overall for the week i'm up one r it is what it is so with that being said this is going to be it for this live trading session and i will talk to you in the next one take care
