hello soik traders welcome back to another case study today i want to talk about nq and this run that we just had in the past two weeks after this choppiness and everybody was crying about how choppy this market is and how everybody has been blowing up the accounts. And suddenly now everybody's talking about that this was such an easy market that all you had to do is just buy and hold, right? Well, that's why I say don't listen to anybody on Twitter. Don't listen to anybody on YouTube. Even listen to me carefully because you need to prove it to yourself first that this stuff works that whatever i'm saying works and the fastest way to do that is to back test and prove it to yourself that this stuff works and every time you lose confidence and every time you see the markets just keep on grinding like this come back to these case studies and backtest. Go back to your playbook. The A-plus trade screenshots that you should be collecting, that's your confidence bank. That's where you go when you lose confidence in your trading system. And the more evidence you collect, the more confident you will be and not tempted to chase the market. So I understand that if you just bought the slow and you held it to the high, it would be a great trade. It would be a great swing trade. If you just bought every day, you would be in profit. That's what somebody might think when they look at this chart. But in this video, I'm going to show you that it's not as easy as you might think. And there is a reason why we have the high time frame signals and why we prefer trading with higher time frame signals. Because there are two ways of trading the stoic edge. You can scalp just by using 20 and 200 simple moving average, SBS, FIB geometry, previous day levels, all that confluence to take a scalp. And I recommend you to have hard rules for yourself because the biggest problem traders have is tilting. And you can be trading whatever you want. You can be trading the worst strategy ever, which there is no such a thing. Each strategy is equally good. It's all about the trader, right? But you could be trading anything you want and still make money. The goal is making money. Doesn't matter what kind of trading model you use. The goal is always has been making money. So if you have a reliable process and a system to make that money, you should be only executing that system. So for the scalping, I recommend one to three trades per day and aiming for one to three R per trade. and when you're scalping you want to stack those base hits so those are your ideal sbs trades those are your ideal fifth geometry trades that you are trying to get in at a good entry and you have a target of 1r 2r 3r or you're trying to even trail but the main goal is to make money so when the price goes in your direction in profit, make sure you start protecting your capital as soon as possible and don't let that winner turn into a loser. That's the scalping rules and also you should have a max loss limit for the day. If you can follow those rules, you will start developing your own trading system and getting experience trading that system. That's the only way. You have to start collecting data for your own trading. And what I mean is, what do you do after a loss? What do you do after a win? Are you actually following your rules or are you breaking them every single day. That's your process. That's your trading process routine that you need to follow every single day. And that process needs to be the same. And it all comes down to placing bets. Those bets either win or lose. Sometimes they win, sometimes they lose. Placing bets over long period of time with positive expectancy. That's why in our trading journal, the most important number is trade expectancy. If you have a positive trade expectancy, that means your trading system works. And what it really means is that you as a trader is profitable. You have a profitable edge because you pressing buttons yielding positive results. That's all that matters. So you have scalping and on the other hand, you have high time frame signal trading. Now, that's more of a one and done mentality. This is something where you take the trade and let it run into the close. and yes sometimes it will go against you and you get stopped out in little profit or maybe you get stopped out at break even or maybe it's a loss but the main point is that with the higher time frame signal trading we are looking for the bigger moves we are looking and aiming for five to ten our moves. So instead of trying to stock base hits, we are trying to get a big winner. And this approach will give you less trades, but also it will give you more time. With scalping, you need to focus a lot. You need to be in tuned with price action. What is it doing right now in front of you? that takes a lot of time energy and focus but with higher time frame signal trading it doesn't take a long time for you to find a trade the trade is either there or not the price is either behaving according to your made-up plan that you did yesterday and you have a signal day And when you're coming to the market today, all you're looking for is price respecting 20 and 200 simple moving averages. And you simply take the trade in the direction of the signal and in the direction of the moving averages. So like I always say, everybody's different with different schedule, with different personality. And one way of trading is not going to fit everybody. So pick which one do you want to focus on. You can actually do both, but I recommend you keeping separate accounts for both styles of trading and don't mix them up. And I really recommend and suggest you to just focus on one style of trading and decide for yourself, are you a scalper or are you a more of a higher timeframe swing trader? If you need help with identifying which one you might be or which one would work for you better, reach out to me in DMs and we can talk about it. But with that being said, let me get into the charts. So going back to reminding yourself that this stuff really works. And here on this chart, I highlight it every Thursday. and from the teachings as you may know the Thursday is the best reversal trade for the whole week so as you can see every time we have the Thursday it's leading to a big move so here's the reversal leading to a big move reversal leading to a big move nothing happened over here. So not every Thursday is going to work out. Of course not. But there is another Thursday. There is another Thursday and then Friday has a follow-up day. There is another Thursday and Friday has a follow-up day. Another Thursday and the Friday has a follow-up day. Thursday and the Friday has a follow-up day. And now, after this reversal in the end of March, we have the April has been just expanding higher and higher. We went from the lowest close of the month to the highest close of the month. As you can see, Thursday over here provides a down move but closes green. Thursday over here does nothing and Thursday over here does nothing. Everything works sometimes. There is no such a thing as something that works all the time in trading. What we really want to focus on is ourselves, self-management and trade management. That's all we can control. We do not have control over the market. The market can do whatever it wants to do. it can do backflips for all I care but if price action does not behave in a way I want it meaning that it needs to respect the yesterday signal 20 and 200 SMA needs to agree price needs to be a bow or below 20, 200 SMA according to the signal and only then after session timing which is after 9.30am New York session only then I take a trade if the price is agreeing with my plan. But if the price is not agreeing with my plan, I simply do not trade. And that restriction will keep you out of bad trades. But also sometimes that restriction will keep you out of good trades. Like I said, there is no perfect in trading. and the biggest thing to accept as a new trader or a trader who's been stubborn and still don't know what's going on and why they've been losing for so long, it's because you can't accept the uncertainty. And you're always looking for the little tweaks and little things to tweak in order to make your trading model better. So stop doing that. Don't try to make SBS better. Don't try to make fifth geometry better or try to identify how to time the exact number five of the SBS. Don't try to do it because it leads to over analysis, over trading and a lot of hesitation and distrust in your system. Instead, shift your focus on self-management and trade management. That's the skill. You need to master self and trade management. And of course, some trades are going to fail. Some trades are going to run to 10R. Some trades you're going to take and get stopped out and they're still going to 10R. Some trades are going to just stop you out for no reason. and the main point to understand is that we do not have control of the outcome we simply executing system one trade after the other so let me get back to the charts and i'm gonna show you what happened during this nasdaq bull run i personally was dollar cost averaging into this i was dollar cost averaging across all of this and that's what i do when i have a big dip when there is a big dip in the market i like to just dollar cost average for my future investments that i hold for a long long term but as a trader i'm not trying to time this bottom i'm trading my signals so let's walk through this starting from the very first reversal this was march lowest close of the month and we reversed printed a first green day so according to the stoic edge system this is a first green day signal we are looking to trade the next day which is bullish and this was actually not a bad trade not a bad setup it didn't run a lot but you have a nice setup 9 30 price gets back about 20 SMA, you can buy this stop loss, and you have about 3R, and you get out on the break and retest of the SMA, right? So this is where you get to see the price and signal aligning with the thesis, right? Aligning with the long thesis after the green day, and all we're doing is we are coming in into the session and this is a bit of a choppy consolidation, a bit of a wide consolidation, but still consolidation leads to expansion. And that's what we trade. We simply get about 20 SMA and we trade in the direction of the signal. So the next day we have this type of price action. Now, I'm going to remind you that this is a beginning of the month here. So usually, most of the time, you want to just wait for a few days to see the price going into some direction. But besides that, the market opens up and trades below. And at 9.30, it does this type of stuff. So there is no signal here. There is nothing on the chart to the left. we just beginning a new month and we are trying to see if this previous daily close is going to hold and the previous daily close is all the way up here so even though there is not really a signal maybe you can scalp this right maybe you can scalp and get some good trades and this is where I have a problem with scalping. It's not that you can't do it, it's just hard to do it. It's difficult because this is a five-minute chart. And again, if you are still trading on one-minute chart, I promise you just go to the five-minute and the trading will get easier, less stressful, and more peaceful. But also you can use 5-minute, 20 and 200 SMA, SBS, and scalp this movement. And this is also 20 and 200 SMA, expanded reversal. I thought this in the Stoic Trader Protocol. And you have 930. Dip and rip. Personally, I wouldn't be trusting this. And also after the close of the 20 SMA, this would be the short, but then it turned into an SBS long. So first you get stopped out and then maybe you get in back again and then you catch the move. One loss, one win, maybe you caught it. And it's obvious trade in the hindsight, but at the moment when price goes down below and you have this downtrend, right? And then price goes back about, it's not that easy as it seems. It's still a difficult trade, especially when you don't have a clear high time frame signal. Moving on to the next day, and this little red day over here, this was Good Friday for the Easter. So bank holiday closed early. It didn't really happen anything, but this is consolidation. So we have pump into consolidation, and this could go two ways. It could go down, back down which that's what i thought we will do but essentially it went back up so it can go both ways because after consolidation comes expansion so we don't really know which way to go it's hard to time this because sometimes you get a fake out and go back down so that's why i like to wait for the extremes so when the price extends like to the extreme low that's where i'm looking for the longs. And right now, that's why I'm looking for the shorts, because I know that if price cooperates and provides an actual short, the short will be glorious. That's at least what I'm anticipating. But it doesn't matter what I think. If price doesn't do what I'm anticipating, I just simply don't trade. But this is the day we are focusing on right now. And we had a sweep of the inside day and this is a setup too this is the inside day setup you got a sweep of the inside day and you trade the other direction and that would be not a bad scalp so here it is the london session provided a nice move and then you get out on the break of the sma and then you have 9 30 open 9 30 open opens up into the february elcom and then breaks back down So if you try to long this, this would be a losing trade. Again, there is not really a signal on the higher time frame chart. So if there is not a signal or prices chopping around between levels, it's not really the best day to trade. The better days are coming from the extremes. But when we're starting to move back into the range and starting to range on the daily chart like multiple daily candles, it's not an easy market to trade so moving on to another day and this would be like a short i marked it like a short because we were hitting into the february outcome so yet again we extended a bit and i thought maybe we can just go back down so what happens we have the move down we have the 930 right our signal perish because we're looking for the sweep and go back down so the signal is bearish 930 comes around breaks below there is the entry on the close of the five minute candle right below the 2200 sma this is the entry you hold it and here is your exit and you didn't get the home run, but at least you're not going to get stopped out. And when you see this trade and it starts going into your direction and you're just trailing, right? You're trying to trail about the 20 SMA. And when the price starts going above it, maybe you're going to give a little bit of room, maybe just a little fake out. But when price creates a high, retest and this retest holds this is your sign where you need to get out you need to get out of this trade on this high or whatever this break and retest holds still gave a good trade based on the signal we have consolidation into the new york even london session provided with consolidation and up, but the moving averages were a bit messy. But this signal played out. And this was this one over here. And you can see it played out on a daily chart, but it swept. So moving on to the next day. So right after the hours, Trump said something. I think it was about the Iran war. I'm not really remembering what he said, but the chart went up. So the chart went up right into the March H.com. So immediately I'm looking for the shorts. Yet again, we are expanding extremes of the month. So we hit March H.com. I'm looking for the shorts. I'm seeing this consolidation going New York. Beautiful sweep. I'm waiting for the 2200 SMA. Price closes below 2200 SMA. Stop loss should be about the swing high. And I'm just watching this trade go down. I get excited, right? But then it stops out. If you entered it over here, this is where you get stopped out. Break even. Yet again, the signal playing out, but then you get stopped out based on the system. 20 and 200 SMA. We're not trying to hold and hope. especially in New York session 9 30 10 o'clock this is the go time you have 9 30 10 o'clock rotation and continuation lower so if price reverses and going back about 20 SMA the trade is done yeah maybe sometimes in very very rare cases where the price will go up and then go back down like this fake you out but most of the times 9 30 especially after 10 o'clock if price does not just sell off that trade is done moving on to the next setup this was yet again trying to short you got the short setup because we are expanding this is the highest close of the month We are at March H.com. We are trying to see where that reversal will come, right? Because we've been expanding for a long time now. So 930 comes around. You short it right below the 20, 200 SMA. And then you get stopped out probably for the full trade. So this is where the first time after this move up, This is the first time where you would take a loss based on the signal, right? Because you try to short and then it stops you out. Not a bad consolidation. Everything is intact. All the trade confluences are kind of there, but trade failed. Not a big deal. Trade's going to fail. We just need to minimize those failures. and that's why we have higher time frame signals because they give us a higher probability of a big move playing out on the daily chart targeting those trapped traders. Moving on to the next day, yet again, I'm looking for shorts, right? But this time the price was up. So the price is about $20 and $200 SMA, $930, and I do nothing because my bias is short. And because I do nothing, I stay out of this garbage price action. The 9.30, this was brutal. And I think this was a CPI news, eight o'clock CPI news here, 8.30. And this was brutal. And imagine you trying to scalp this. You're switching your bias so many times. You know, price goes up, price breaks below, goes back up, breaks below, goes back up. And this is the danger of the scalping. And this is why you need to have hard rules where if you take like two losses for the day, just don't trade. Don't trade. Stop it. If you take one win, good win for the day, stop it. Because more likely or not you will get yourself chopped up because staying out of the market is also a skill and with the higher time frame signal trading this is how you can stay out of bad market of bad trading days and yes sometimes you're gonna stay out and it's gonna run really really hard Like in this case, this was the next day. We dumped. We have a big gap here. And yet again, I am bearish because we are gapping down and I'm trying to see if we go back to the February outcome. And I'm thinking, well, this is it. This is the final day where we're going to make this move. And guess what? The price staying above 20 and 200 SMA. So I don't take the trade and I watch price go back up. And it's okay because it's not part of my trading system. Right now, I'm only trading high time frame signals. So this wasn't part of my trade. And it's okay. It's okay because I showed you that sometimes it works and sometimes it doesn't. And you encounter this type of price action. but this over here was actually a good sculpt and this was actually very nice if you were trailing about 20 sma and here was a tricky one but if you stayed out of this this would be a good trade so if you are scalping and you want to identify very good trades always look for consolidation and look how tight this consolidation was. This was a beautiful consolidation here. So when you see consolidation and then you see price breaking back about the higher timeframe levels, this is where you can take the scalp. But also notice that this was a SFP of the previous daily low, right? and the previous daily close was about here. So the previous daily close was all the way up here. And that's another reason why I didn't take this trade because we were way below previous daily close and about 20 and 200 SMA. So you see how the trade is not really lining up with my thesis, but if I just flipped my bias, you know, this would be a winning trade. but that's the whole point i don't flip my bias because i feel like it moving on to the next day the following day another very nice banger and this was actually a very good continuation trade and i could even argue that this was a first green day because you have this pullback and this was the first green day. So I missed this trade also. I was looking for shorts and when I saw the price just keeps going higher, I didn't pay attention to it. Because at this point, the price is extended a lot and looking for the continuous longs is not really a good idea. But this was a good scalp. You could say that nice consolidation, breakout, and price staying above, previous daily high, previous daily close. This wasn't bad. There is your 3 a.m. trade, and there is the 9.30, beautiful explosion right into the February H.com. Yet again, good for scalping, not for me as a high time frame signal trader. Next day, the same thing. yet again i'm trying to short from the february hcom and i missed the trade pdh pdc another good consolidation very obvious consolidation and then 930 happens here 940 a bit tricky but eventually you could get on the right side you need to get out here on the break of the sma and then in here this is harder to time, harder to catch this because you are done for the day. Yet again, it played out. Very good scalp, in my opinion. But personally, I just missed it. And it's okay to miss trades. So yet again, I'm trying to short. And the 930 provides a very good opportunity to short and actually this was a valid short you got the closure below the 2200 sma price goes down but here you need to get out because price closing about 20 sma so as you can see some signals will start playing out but then still reverse and this is the manipulation and in order to protect yourself from this manipulation, you want to get out when the price gets back about 20 SMA. Yes, sometimes you're going to take a loss, but you want to respect these lines, these 20 and 200 SMA. They are really all you need in order to understand what price is doing. And here's what happened on friday the same kind of setup you have pdh pdc they are stacked you got 2200 sma 3 a.m trade and the 9 30 a.m trade is not that good the really london traders made money if they caught this move but yet again i would be looking for the shorts so that's why i don't trade this this is now extended way far and if you are just trading nasdaq chart it might seem like you missed the whole move but i just show you that if we take it day by day there are some days that just not worth trading and yeah there are some days that you missed and it could have been a very good trade but could have would have should have maybe is not good enough we are here to follow our system because if we do eventually we will have trades like on gbp cat so this is forex pair. I don't really trade this because I don't have a way to trade Forex futures of GBP CAD. Maybe I should open a Forex account, but this was a very nice trade on GBP CAD. It was two days in a row. And this is a very nice textbook example of what happens when the system works and when the confluence aligns so you have the previous high of the week getting swept you have the first red day if you're trading first red day this is just a sweep of the previous high of the week after multiple higher closes so we are extending into hcom highest close of the month right below the February HECOM. So this is resistance here on GBP CAD. First red day, this is how it looked over here. You can see consolidation below 2200 SMA, SBS, 930 New York. You have FIB geometry and it drives all the way down into these levels. So on the first red day, this would be a trade after 9.30, you have a closure below the 20 SMA, price stop loss about swing point or even a little bit higher. And then you go down into the close or you start getting out when the price gets back about 20 SMA. And like I said, sometimes that first candle, you maybe need to wait because sometimes the first candle break about 20 sma could be a fake out but moving on into the next day you have consolidation sbs london opens up below the 20 200 sma this is your short stop loss about the swing point and you hold it price gets about 20 sma and this is your little trade like about 3r then 9 30 comes around and this is where i would be trading 9 30 breaks below 20 sma stop about the swing point and you trail it until you know you get stopped out over here into the close and the next day this was thursday and on friday It dropped even lower and it actually dropped right into this March H.com. It almost hit the March H.com and reversed. I just have a screenshot from Thursday. But you can see how it plays out when all the stars aligned. And throughout all of these case studies, I'm only showing you the same thing over and over again. It's consolidation leads to expansion. Consolidation leads to expansion. Even this little consolidation leads to expansion. So that's the main focus. We want to see consolidation, and we enter during that consolidation if we can find a good entry, or we enter on a break and retest of that consolidation. And then you use 20-200 SMA with SBS, and that's really the whole Stoic Edge system. So with that being said, hopefully this video was insightful, and I will talk to you in the next one. Take care.
